Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to give an explanatory overview of how LDA or later there are only allocation for topic
modeling works.
Johanne there slate was a German mathematician in the 1800s who contributed widely to the field of modern
mathematics.
And there is a probability distribution named after him called that there is Slate distribution and
this is the distribution that is used later on in LDK so late to Thursley allocation is based off this
probability distribution.
And in 2003 Elda was actually first published as a graphical model for topic discovery in the Journal
of machine learning research.
So keep in mind even though there are Schley's name is attached to this particular method for topic
modeling it really just stems from the fact that it uses that there is slape probability distribution
not that Thursley himself actually invented the LTA for topic modeling the actual method is relatively
new.
From 2003.
So we're going to get a high level overview of how LDA works for topic modeling.
But I would really encourage you to also take a look at the original publication paper.
Now there are two main assumptions we're going to make in order to actually apply LDA for topic modeling.
The first one is that documents with similar topics use similar groups of words and that's a pretty
reasonable assumption because that basically saying that if you have various documents covering a similar
topic like a bunch of documents covering the topic of business or economy that they should end up using
similar words like money price market stocks etc..
The other Sumption are going to make is that latent topic's can then be found by searching for groups
of words that frequently occur together in documents across the corpus and that's going to the assumption
that we're really going to dive into the details later on.
So again these are the two assumptions and they're both actually quite reasonable for the way humans
write documents.
And we can actually think of these two assumptions mathematically the way we kind of model these assumptions
is the following.
We can say that documents are probability distributions over some underlying late and topics and then
topics themselves are probability distributions over overworks.
So let's see how each of those actually plays out.
We can imagine that any particular document is going to have a probability distribution over a given
amount of topics.
So let's say we decide that there are five and topics across various documents than any particular document
is going to have a probability of belonging to each topic.
So here we can see document one has the highest probability of belonging to topic number two.
So we have this discrete probability distribution across the topics for each document.
Then we can look at another document such as document number 2.
In this case it does have probabilities of belonging to other topics but we're going to say that it
has the highest probability of belonging to Topic four.
Notice here we're not saying definitively that document 1 belongs to any particular topic or document
to belong to any particular topic.
Instead we're modeling them as having a probability distribution over a variety of topics.
And then if we look at the topics themselves those are simply going to be modeled as probability distributions
over words.
So for example we can define topic one as different probabilities belonging to each of these words as
belonging to that topic.
So we can see here that it has a low probability of the word he belong a topic one low probability of
food belong a topic one etc. and then we can see that word such as cat and dog have a higher probability
of belonging to topic one.
And here is where we're actually going to begin as a user trying to understand what this topic is actually
representative of.
So if we were to get this sort of probability distribution across all the vocabulary of all the words
in the corpus but we would end up doing is asking for maybe the top 10 highest probability words for
topic 1 and then we would try to realize what the actual underlying topic was.
So in this case we could make an educated guess that topic one happened to do with pets and we would
say that topic one has to do with pets.
Again the LDA or unsupervised learning technique is not going to be able to tell you that directly.
It's up to the user to interpret these probability distributions as topics and we'll actually get hands
on practice with that when we perform LDH ourselves of Python.
So LTA represents documents as mixtures of topics that spit out words with certain probabilities and
it's going to assume that documents are produced in the following fashion.
It's first going to decide on the number of words and that that document will have then we choose a
topic mixture that documents according to a slate distribution over a fixed set of topics.
So that's where that slide distribution comes to effect.
So for example we start off and say this document is 60 percent business 20 percent politics and 10
percent foods.
So that's her actual distribution and then what we're going to do is we're going to generate each word
in the document by first picking a topic according to the multinomial distribution that we sampled previously.
So we picked words 60 percent of them from the business topic 20 percent of them from politics and then
10 percent from the food topic and then using the topic to generate the word itself.
So again according to the topics own multinomial distribution across the words.
So for example if we selected the food topic we might generate the word apple a 60 percent probability
and another word home with less probability like 30 percent probability and so on.
Assuming this sort of generative model for a collection of documents LDA is actually going to then try
to backtrack from the documents to find the topics that are likely to have generated the collection.
So again this process here that we just went over LTI is assuming that that's how you built the documents.
Now obviously in the real world you're not actually building documents with this sort of frame of mind
but it's a very useful construct of the way topics can be mixed throughout various documents and the
way words can be mixed throughout various topics.
So what we're going to do is attempt to backtrack that sort of process.
So let's actually show you what else is going to do since it's assuming that that's how you built the
documents.
So we're can imagine we have a set of documents and the first that we have to do is actually choose
some fixed number of topics to discover and you should note that very carefully that this is actually
really hard.
In order for LDA to work you as a user need to decide how many topics are going to be discovered.
So even before you start LDA you need to have some sort of intuition over how many topics.
So we choose some fixed number of topics to discover and then we're going to want to use LDA to learn
the topic representation of each document and the words associated to each topic.
Then we're going to go through each document and we're going to randomly assign each word in the document
to one of the K topics.
So keep in mind the very first pass this random assignment actually already gives you both topic representations
of all the documents and word distributions of all the topics and we've assigned everything randomly
at the very first pass so we're technically not done yet because these initial ran and topics won't
really make sense.
They're going to be really poor representations of topics since you essentially just assign every word
around that topic.
So now it's time to iterate over this and see if we can figure out how to fix these sort of assignments.
So we're going to iterate over every word in every document to improve these topics and we're going
to do it for every word in every document and for each topic.
We're going to that the following we're going to calculate the proportion of words in document D that
are currently assigned to topic T.
Then we're also going to calculate the proportion of assignments that topic t over all documents that
come from this particular word w and then we're going to reassign w a new topic where we choose topic
t with probability of topic T given document the times probability of word w given topic T.
So this is essentially the probability that topic t generated the word W and after repeating that previous
step a large number of times we eventually reach a roughly steady state where the assignments for the
topics are acceptable these words and topics don't start changing that often they become pretty steady.
So at the end what we have is each document being assigned to a topic and then all we can do is we can
then search for the words that have the highest probability of being assigned a topic so we end up with
an output such as this will say.
After running through all the documents and performing LDA you pass in one particular document and then
report back LDA will report back.
I think this document is assigned to topic number four and we actually don't know yet what topic number
4 presents but we can ask LDA is what are the most common words in topic for what words have the highest
probability of showing up a topic for.
And then you may get results like cat that birds dog food home etc. and then given this list of high
probability words for this particular topic it's up to the user to interpret what topic is.
And for this I think a reasonable interpretation would be that these particular documents assigns a
topic for probably have to do something with pets and we would say OK I think topic 4 is pets.
Now is that the right answer.
There's really no way of knowing because we didn't have the right answer to begin with but it's a reasonable
assumption to make given the high probability of words showing up for topic for so again two important
notes here before we continue and actually apply this with Python.
The first important note is that the user themselves must decide on the amount of topics present in
the document before even beginning this process and the second one is that the user themselves must
interpret what the topics are are and what they're actually representing.
OK in the next lecture we're going to explore how to actually implement LDA with Python and secular.
I'll see it there.